It this video will learn some of the terminology and notation used with inheritance.
The terminology we use is pretty straightforward but it's important that it's clear since she'll be
using it throughout your career as a C++ developer.
First let's review inheritance as we've already seen inheritances the process of creating new classes
from existing classes.
It's a mechanism that allows us to reuse existing code when we use inheritance to create a new class.
There may be several classes involved in this course.
We'll mainly talk about single inheritance.
That is when we create a new class based on another single class multiple inheritance is when we create
a new class from two or more other classes.
The classes that are involved in the inheritance relationship also have terms associated with them.
The base class is the class being extended or inherited from these classes also referred to as the parent
class or superclass in the inheritance relationship the derived class is the class it's being created
from the base class.
This class will inherit the attributes and operations from the base class and this class is also referred
to as the child class or the subclass.
You can see in the diagram the commonly used notation used to express this inherit its relationship.
We draw a solid line between the base class and the derived class with a closed unfilled arrowhead or
a triangle pointing to the base class.
This is a UML class diagram and can also show much more information about the classes we're modeling
a very important concept to understand is that of an is a relationship with object oriented programming
and inheritance.
When we use Classic or public inheritance our derived classes are generally subtypes of their base classes.
This implies an is a relationship so a circle is a shape.
A savings account is an account.
This very simple concept will provide us with a great deal of power.
We learned how to leverage.
This is a relationship and the next section of the course when we learn about polymorphic functions
generalization is about combining similar classes into a single more general class based on the classes
common attributes the more general classes is obviously more abstract and can therefore potentially
be reused more easily.
Specialization is the opposite of generalization.
This is about creating new classes from existing classes and these new classes generally add attributes
and operations to the already inherited ones as programmers and designers.
We use both generalization and specialization to create inheritance hierarchies inheritance hierarchies
is how we organize our inheritance relationships so that we can more effectively organize and reuse
our code.
Let's see a simple example in this example we have classes A B C D and D and we have public inheritance.
That is is a relationships between derived and base classes.
You can see that class A is not being derived from any other class.
This class is often referred to as the root class in the hierarchy.
B is derived from A.
C is also derived from a D is derived from C and is derived from D.
You can see the class hierarchy in the diagram.
Notice that the higher up we go in the hierarchy the more general our classes are and the lower we go
in our hierarchy the more specialized they are.
Also notice the is a relationships.
In this example B is an A.
C is also in since they're both derived from the class A and E is a D because e is derived from class
D.
Now notice that E is also a c.
Since inheritance is transitive.
In fact in this example E is also an A.
However Class B is not a C.
There is no inheritance relationship directly between B and C..
Let's look at a more concrete example.
In this example we have a root class person.
That's the most general or abstract class in this class hierarchy.
We can see that student is derived from person.
So a student is a person and inherits the attributes and operations of the Person class.
We also see that employee is a person and faculty staff and administrators are derived from employee.
So they are employees.
In fact there are also persons but notice that a student is not an employee in this class hierarchy.
Also notice that the is a relationships are not bi directional.
For example a person is not necessarily an employee because they could be a student.
You can see how useful a class diagram can be since it provides a high level structural overview of
the classes and their relationships in the next video will look at another way of using classes in C++
called composition and see how it differs from inheritance.